no intro  no outro  just real talk  if you haven't heard me say this before  stick around watch the channel you're  gonna hear me say it again  vagueness is the enemy of good and evil  alike i'm so sick and tired of people  coming on the internet and trying to  ruin one another's lives with  allegations that are so vague that they  can neither be true nor false they can  neither be good nor evil they're just  vague  people line up for their opportunity to  get on camera or just get behind the  keyboard on twitter and make up  allegations that are so vague that  nobody can ever clear their name and on  the other hand the people who actually  join in the orgy of hatred and  denunciation 21st century phenomenon of  canceled culture they rarely can say  with any certainty what it is they are  denouncing and canceling someone else  for they're cancelling someone just for  being a predator they're canceling  someone for for being a misogynist  they're canceling someone for being a  dangerous despicable person in terms so  vague that they never can be specified  all right we all have to challenge  ourselves not just to speak with  precision but i think also to calibrate  the allegations we make against other  people now if i say that i think vegan  gains is a terrible person in what sense  precisely do i mean as a terrible person  and how how terrible are we really  talking about here let's say something  if i found out that  my sister  were getting married to richard that my  sister were gonna settle down and get  married to vegan gains i'd be concerned  i'd be concerned for her safety i i  wouldn't just try to warn her i wouldn't  just talk her through look do you know  about this guy's various red flags do  you know about his various mental  problems do you know about his record do  you know about all the videos he used to  have on youtube that have been deleted  and that he now lies about in retrospect  you know do you know about the evidence  of what kind of guy this is and what  what is getting yourself into sure you  know  if my sister were gonna get married to  vegan gains  i would have grave doubts that she would  be alive just five years from now and i  would have doubts that richard himself  would be alive five years from now  he is someone who's been teetering on  the brink of a range of both destructive  and  self-destructive behaviors  the scariest part being that he's become  less and less honest about it over time  more and more deceptive and manipulative  about it over time  i was talking about richard on this  channel at least five years ago maybe  it's closer to seven and eight years ago  now and one of the things i used to be  able to say in his favor is well look  he's got a lot of problems there are a  lot of things wrong with him but at  least he's really honest and i can't say  that for richard anymore now i can say  he's got a lot of problems and he's  being dishonest and manipulative about  all of them  and uh those of you who are cursed with  a long memory will know will know the  extent to which he's lying about what he  said and why in videos of of just a few  years ago now  a couple things that are interesting to  me just in the first two or three  minutes of this dialogue that's been  shared with the public today between uh  richard and uh this comedian uh god now  forgot isaac what is it isaac  butterfield that's it you know  um  isaac asks richard why he is so cruel to  other people i'm changing the wording  slightly here and i'm omitting swear  words and curse words that come up in  the original but he asked richard in  fact why are you such a terrible person  other people and richard's answer is  that he believes  all other people are more terrible still  this is a philosophy you're going to  counter again and again which is people  justifying their own cruelty by  projecting their own negative traits  onto others and claiming that they're  universal or even claiming that if  they're not terrible and cruel and  violent violent other people those other  people will be first this is a very  crude very childlike form of  psychological projection now to my  knowledge that issue the the  conversation doesn't go down that rabbit  hole any soon but let's let's do this  now just myself uh uh with my audience  yes so someone who's seen the video is  filling in the the blanks for what the  curse words are someone says isaac used  another c word yes yeah  he's saying to richard in fact why are  you so cruel to your to your fellow  human beings and richard says back not  in precise of these words that he  believes all other human beings or even  worse okay well you know what richard  if my sister were going to get married  to james aspie i wouldn't be concerned  i wouldn't be you know i'm a critic of  james aspie i think there are a lot of  things wrong with james aspie i can sit  here and criticize  james assby's approach to vegan activism  i can sit here and criticize uh james  aspey's approach to  youtube  content creation zero budget filmmaking  wherever you wanna put there are things  i really disagree with  james asked about if my sister were  getting married to james aspie i have no  concerns whatsoever  right  if my sister were getting  married to richard we're getting married  to opinions i'd be afraid for her life  okay and and as i say to be fair  i'm afraid for richard's life too  you guys can sit here and ask yourself  do you really think  richard burgess do you really think  vegan gains is going to be live just  just five years from now  my answer is  maybe you know um  i've made many videos  criticizing dorian ryder  during writer is another  would-be  leader of the vegan movement very  eccentric guy i have made videos  criticizing gary yourofsky deeply flawed  character  all these people there's a lot wrong  with them so a lot wrong with gary  yourofsky it's a lot wrong with  durianriders a lot wrong with aaron  janus of the people who are leaders of  the vegan movement there's a lot wrong  with these people okay i've got to tell  you something richard it's completely  ridiculous for you to say that everyone  else is just as as terrible a person or  worse that everyone is more cruel than  you are that everyone is more terrible  than you are and therefore you're  justified in behaving the way you do  towards others or therefore you don't  you don't even  question it  um if we were to put these people on a  spectrum like i don't know you guys can  decide  you know so one of the spectrum we have  richard we have vegan gains and i know  who you put the others better the the  degrees of how terrible these people are  well you know again there's a lot wrong  with gary armscape we've seen gary  yourofsky have a number of kind of manic  breakdowns on camera we've seen him make  a number of frankly violent rants we  have we've seen gary yourofsky talking  about killing people violence terrorism  we've seen him crack  put it that way you know um  we've seen him go a little bit crazy on  camera and i have my criticism of the  guy all these people i can find fault  with them all right richard you're worse  and  you know what the tragedy is richard i  think you know  that you're worse i think you know that  when you wake up in the morning and look  in the mirror that you are not even  as good a person  as james aspie  this is not to compare yourself to some  unimpeachably high standard of virtue or  intellectual self-discipline or  intelligence or anything else i think  you richard struggle with the real sense  of inferiority even in  comparing yourself to other vegan  youtubers other opinion leaders in this  movement other youtubers who are in the  same category so and if there is one  person on youtube that you remind me of  richard in your philosophy in your  justification  of doing unto others  because you assume that they would do  the same thing to you you assume that  they would be just as terrible they'd be  just called there's only one youtuber i  can think of who has this philosophy and  commentary richard and that's spirit  spheroid i think properly pronounced  sphea something like this you know what  i'm saying uh  spiridge  as he is known in english as his name is  mr sandwich is an anti-vegan  flat earth youtuber conspiracy theory  believing youtuber how to summarize his  content he advocates for eating raw meat  extremely eccentric character  his philosophy is that you should not  treat other people the way you would  want them to treat you  all right that you should on the  contrary be cruel to others because he  says the only way that you can be happy  is through hurting others  that's his philosophy  and it's his fundamental justification  for killing animals  whether that's killing them to eat them  alive to eat them raw or to eat them  cook he sees the fate of mankind  on earth as a perpetual process  of cruelty  and that it is only through cruelty that  your own vitality can be increased your  own energy as he likes to put it he uses  some of this kind of hippie verbiage is  increased by  cruelty to animals inflicting suffering  on animals and cruelty to your your  fellow man to other  uh human beings that's his  view of human nature now okay you tell  me richard you know  is your philosophy so different like  this challenge you were given by isaac  butterfield  philosophical and intellectual giant  that he is isaac butterfield isaac  butterfield challenges you by saying  look you know  why do you treat other people this way  and your answer is that you think they  deserve to be treated that way because  they're they're just as terrible a  person as the people the other people in  the world everyone else in the world  actually said that everyone else is an  even more terrible person than that he  is himself well you know  what about a really simple challenge to  that like do unto others  as you'd have them do unto you  that's by no means a rule we can all  implement universally in life we can't  treat the taliban in afghanistan the way  we would like the taliban to treat us  there are limits to this there are you  know but as as a very broad open-ended  question we can ask what what about that  richard what is your answer to that  puzzle the puzzle of doing unto others  as you'd have been doing to you i think  his answer to that puzzle is  fundamentally the same as the spirit  just i think his answer is a an ethic  and a philosophy of cruelty  and that he feels even if he can't quite  uh  give voice to it in the direct and  honest way that that spirit does he he  feels that he has to be cruel to others  um not just to make himself happy but  just to stop himself from feeling  miserable and i do think that's why at a  very young age he got into cruel and  sadistic forms of bdsm that is why at a  young age as he has described himself he  got into acts of violence against other  boys i can't even say other young men  which he has himself described and i  don't have to uh  well someone in the audience just said  richard is a sociopath i'm going to tell  you the truth i don't believe the word  sociopath means anything more  than a uh  stereotype of human behavior it's  it's a it's a set of stereotypes i don't  think it's medically real you know what  i mean  but i think it's significant that  richard  in reflecting on his own life that he  decided that he was a sociopath that was  his self-assessment  and there's no doubt that his own  experience with violence with cruelty to  others and with  bdsm and so on with his struggles with  his own sexuality that was all part of  that that self diagnosis now the very  next topic that comes up in this debate  can i call it a debate this discussion  between richard and  and uh  isaac butterfield  is that isaac says to him  somewhat incoherently with no  particularly smooth segue or transition  he says look you know when i  disagree with you about these things  and your  first reply or your immediate response  is to challenge me to a fist fight  just challenge me to mine once you know  he said you know don't you realize that  that makes you sound like a  three-year-old  no obviously slightly paraphrasing here  interesting  it ain't deep but it's real if you guys  have been watching my youtube channel  since it started you will know at the  very beginning i made a lot of videos  talking about buddhism as a religion and  buddhist philosophy  never had a buddhist monk appear on the  channel to debate me never  never once  never had a professor of buddhism  never had a member of the religion like  a lay buddhist  why do you why why do you think nobody  in the buddhist religion wants to debate  me i had youtube videos i had no  articles some of them peer-reviewed  articles but articles backed up with  research and citations and  years of study of the ancient scripture  language i knew a lot about buddhism  isn't that funny now what do you think  it would accomplish  if i were to imitate richard's method  and make youtube videos or otherwise  reach out to people shout them out or  send them email  demanding  that they have a fistfight with me  demanding they have a cage fight  if i were not just  trying to debate them or trying to  challenge an issue but i was threatening  to beat them up  if i were insulting and reviling them  and saying they don't really believe  what they say they believe or they they  can't really back up their position  debate because  they won't fight me and if you know i'm  not gonna use the same curse words he  uses but he uses all kinds of words to  insult people's strength and  manliness because they won't  fight him  again  richard has a lot in common with spirit  we can turn this around  on the one hand you know i can ask you  hypothetically well what if  a buddhist did try to debate me let's  say a buddhist monk in robes who's been  to university has a university degree in  buddhist studies  and i respond to him by saying no you're  wrong you should fight me in a cage  match no you're wrong fist fight  like immediate resort to violence  and then and if you don't if you back  down if you're afraid  you know then the insults ensue  what if that were how i  were instigating or settling disputes  with representatives of the buddhist  faith myself as a kind of skeptic i  suppose you'd say in relation to  buddhism  now  i use the buddhist monk as an example  uh  sam harris  i've made some videos with by the way if  you search my channel for sam harris i  still think those videos are worth  watching  um i made videos very harshly  criticizing what sam harris says about  meditation what he says about hinduism  what he says about buddhism  i stand by all those videos again sadly  they're still important to this day okay  did i ever once  challenge sam harris to a fist fight or  a cage match does that make my position  look stronger or weaker and as sam  butterfield sorry sam butterfield isaac  butterfield said you know  simply enough wouldn't that make me look  like a three-year-old  if i were saying  sam harris you're wrong you're wrong  about buddhism and i'm right you're  wrong about meditation i'm right you're  wrong about hinduism and i'm right  you're wrong about atheism and i'm right  through  whatever i have disagreements with and  you know if you don't meet me  in a boxing arena and a cage match  how about another inversion  what if i get an email tomorrow  from a buddhist monk  who says that he doesn't like what i  have to say about buddhism in my videos  and he's the one challenging me to a  boxing match  he says  i'm wrong and he's been practicing kung  fu for 20 years  i have to imagine this maybe he's been  taking steroids who knows you know this  is a roided out kung fu master buddhist  monk  who does his own stunts in movies  and he wants to beat me up to settle  disputes  all right  now how does richard respond  to this challenge from isaac butterfield  again i'm sorry i do really think this  is worth dwelling on even though it's  five seconds out of an hour-long tape  and i don't want to talk about the rest  of it i don't even want to watch the  rest i don't  challenged in this way  richard responds by saying that it  wasn't a fist fight in the sense of a  fight on the street like being assaulted  illegally on the street uh being mugged  richard says that it was a cage match in  an arena and therefore it's no different  from challenging someone to a running  race to a foot race like cucumber  and isaac butterfield to his credit you  know how do you think he responds do you  think you're supposed to be oh  wow  that's a really good point  you know that's a real point you know  what i actually know  a buddhist philosophy channel  and they disagreed about buddhist  philosophy these two guys and so they  had a race and that settled that that's  really yeah that's great  they met at a track and field stadium  and they ran hurdles  they did the long jump like  you know  uh like okay so your your point is to  shift the emphasis from violence  over to  this being a sporting competition now  they do get into the fact that it's not  just a sporting competition in fact it  reflects what richard says about himself  all the time that he has violent  fantasies about hurting these people  that he wants to hurt these people he  wants to punch them in the face i've  heard him say more graphic things about  the harm he wants to the people that he  has these violent fantasies and violent  urges which he shares with his audience  liberally he doesn't feel any need to  constrain or  or censor himself so it's not it's not  the same as challenging to a foot race  and you could have challenged him to a  [ __ ] race you could have challenged him  to rowing a boat and you didn't and  but setting that aside that very good  point aside that tells you a lot about  richard and tells you why you might be  worried to have your sister marry the  guy  isaac restates the same premise and it's  just as true he says oh well yeah but  can't you recognize that if two people  are having a dispute about an ethical  issue about an intellectual issue about  a political issue if two people are  debating or disputing something and one  of them says together yeah well i  challenge you to a foot race i challenge  race then that also sounds like a  three-year-old child  now  from my perspective the saddest part of  all is that if richard  were  pressing this argument against someone  else he would recognize all of these  things i think richard could very easily  revile and insult someone else by trying  to win an argument through a fist fight  instead of actually being right or wrong  if you have a really long memory i think  for the first year of his channel there  was one situation like that where there  was a bodybuilder who challenged him to  a fight and it was richard who wasn't so  interested in uh getting into the rank  and so on uh you know um i think if the  shoe were on the other foot if positions  were reversed or something these same  arguments that isaac is presenting to  richard richard could himself be  offering other people  but it's him  it's his ego so he can't and he won't he  can't see any fault  in what it is  that he's doing  himself  so i do have some uh i do have some  comments coming in from the audience  here  quote vegan gains doesn't debate he  argues the debate consists of listening  to the other side's  facts uh and he just talks over people  instead of actually  debating you know um  i think this comes back to the first  point made in this video  all right richard is himself  stupid  richard is himself ignorant  richard is himself poorly read  i don't think he would ever even claim  to be a well-read person he reads  japanese comic books and they're either  erotic comic books or incredibly violent  comic books i mean you know the comic  books he's reading are not uh  tremendously intellectually stimulating  you know  um  richard's sense of self-confidence is  based on this childlike projection that  everyone else is even stupider than he  is that everyone else is even more  immoral than he is  and that therefore he has to punish them  therefore he's in a position of snubbing  them and you know rubbing their faces in  the dirt and so on  and that's that's what comes out i feel  in his debates he copes with it in  different ways it's not it's not always  the same but you know even when he's  trying to be kind to people which  sometimes he does you can see him  fuming you know you can see this sense  of real  uh  this sense of sort of fictitious  superiority that he that he clings to  now look sorry so there's some more more  comments here about the nature of debate  and how what vegan gains is doing wrong  with debates let me ask you guys you  know  what is  the point of a debate  you know  why debate  when joe biden stood up and had a debate  with donald trump there wasn't a single  moment in which donald trump said you  know what that's a good idea you're  right you know you know what i've  changed my mind  you know you make it compelling not once  you know  um no obviously i'm not going to tell  you there's absolutely no point to a  debate but i'm here trying to suggest to  you that the purpose for a debate the  benefit of what can be  had from a debate it's not what people  pretend it is it's really not  okay so someone here says quote  sociopaths are real it's a mental  disorder it's true that me people misuse  the term but  richard shows all the signs so tell you  what i think is real  uh higarashi  presuming that is your name  i think that when someone dies  you can perform an autopsy on them right  and if there is a visible malformation  in the brain that's real  i have met and spoken to several people  who had in that sense  physically real biologically real  mental disorders  um  [Music]  psychopathy sociopathy being a sociopath  these are  stereotypes they are cultural  stereotypes  and what is considered sociopathic  in english-speaking american culture is  not the same as in cambodian culture  and  it's not even the same in cambodian  culture as it is in vietnamese  culture okay  likewise i mean narcissism it's just a  stereotype about behavior which  originates in a poem  from well ancient greece and ancient  rome it's really especially the one  written by by ovid and latin and  metamorphoses but yeah okay there's a  latin poem which is a it's humorous by  the way there's a satirical poem in  latin and thus we have this idea of of  narcissism  and a narcissist can die and when you  you know  dissect the corpse after you perform an  autopsy  um this so-called medically real mental  disorder you're thinking of you will  find whether it is under the knife  or  you know with the mri scan or the um  x-ray you will find there is nothing  there  and  you know the deeper tragedy is this  to what extent do people have a choice  to what extent can they change now  i've known richard for more than five  years we could try to figure out what  it's been seven years or or what  how different a person would richard be  today  if he had just quit playing video games  and started reading books no other  changes  just that  just that  you know now you could come with a whole  bunch of hypotheticals that would have  developed and would have changed his  character  um  you know richard knew richard had  cognitive awareness that he was some  kind of misanthrope that he had violent  hateful tendencies what if he had  actually taken up some kind of  humanitarian work  yeah sure partly to help other people  but partly to counteract that that  tendency in himself you know  and it's hard i mean you can grow up in  a situation where you really feel that  everyone else is even more of a terrible  person than you are everyone else is  more of a jerk everyone else is more  cruel than you are you know to some  extent that may have been his experience  in life you may have felt that his own  family was unloving or that his his  contemporaries at school we're unloving  towards them or we're cool or what have  you well you can go out and have the  experience of really showing loving  kindness to others of really ministering  unto others really caring for others  and then some of them some of the time  are going to appreciate it and they're  going to be loving and carrying back  towards you right  so he could have done humanitarian work  for his own sake for his own ethical and  intellectual moral development and you  know i know i know he hates christians i  know he hates muslims he could have done  humanitarian work  with christians he could have done  humanitarian work for muslims he could  have gone to syria and helped  you know muslim extremists in cindy  syria help people whose homes have been  destroyed by uh you know the rise and  fall of isis or what have you you know  people he wouldn't normally sympathize  with and then have that experience and  sympathize with their suffering even if  you disagree with their religion and  politics and  and everything else you know okay  how much of a different person you think  richard could be today i don't believe  richard's problem  is comparable to being born with the  plates in your spine  fused together so that you can never  stand up straight  all right richard is a guy who's slumped  over in his chair playing video games  he never stands up  straight  it's a choice  it is not a choice made in just one  moment right  you live in a cycle where the choices  you've made in the past  start to become your destiny where  because you've made the wrong choice  again and again and again it seems more  and more difficult it just seems  unthinkable it seems unimaginable that  you're gonna make a different choice and  really make a change  now um  how much  could richard change how much  could he improve of course i'm skeptical  of course i am  right but of course conversely  i think he could be a much better person  today than than he is now if he had made  different choices five years ago of  course so you can think about it  yourself now to be fair let's calibrate  this james aspie  of course you could be a better person  today if you made different choices five  years ago of course you know so you know  there's plenty of this to go around  and you know look i examined myself in  this way too you know i do think i have  terrible disadvantages in life some of  which are biologically real you know i  do think you know i have  flaws in my character  that i've had to struggle with i've had  to cope with in different ways which  includes why i got involved with  buddhism and buddhist philosophy in the  first place like you know it's obviously  it's not a terrible thing to do but  that reflects certain kind of darkness  in my character like there are things  wrong with me that led me to get  involved with buddhism as a religion and  let me get involved with humanitarian  work helping people now of course any of  you can sit here and say oh gee well  what a terrible thing to do you know  going to cambodia and laos trying to do  humanitarian work trying to help poor  people but you know i'm telling you like  i'm not lying to you you can lie to  yourself that's it's on you you know but  i'm being honest with you there's real  darkness in me there's stuff i was  struggling with  you know things some some of them are  things i inherited from my parents you  could say trauma or whatever i mean  these are such vague terms but some of  them are kind of defects that were  produced by my upbringing by my parents  by my by the school system and culture  right i was raised and some of them even  are i think you know genetic they're  things i was born with well i struggled  and struggled i became a different  person there's nobody in this audience  now who knew me when i was 18 years old  that i've come a long way you know  richard hasn't  right he's still stuck with really you  know the problems he had at 18. as i say  sadly he's um  he's become dishonest about it whereas  before there was a certain kind of  nobility just in his his earnestness his  openness and in reflecting on it you  know  so someone here says jokingly buddhists  no kung fu exclamation point i've lived  in buddhist monasteries i've spent time  with buddhist monks you know not just  not just doing research with a  pen and a piece of paper and yeah i mean  it's it's beautiful in its way you can  wake up in the morning and they always  wake up ridiculous it's 5 30 in the  morning or whatever it is at the  monastery and there's a skinny old man  with a wooden bow staff you know with  the rising sun standing on the parapets  doing the kung fu movements there are  guys who they're guys who live that you  know  they're they're living exemplars of that  tradition you know does it make sense  for buddhist monks to do military  training no  you know that's all it is it's just  military training from a few generations  ago outmoded so you know does it make  sense for buddhist monks to do krav maga  the current generation of of military  training for handicap no but no no i  mean that's real that's that stereotype  exists for a reason there are buddhist  monks pardon me there are buddhist monks  who uh who practice kung fu and all  manner of martial arts there are  buddhist monks who practice with a full  spear  with a sword that were but it's really  you know all that stuff  um they don't just play the chimes those  guys  and they have a lot of time in their  hands  a lot of hours in the day  living that life when i was actually  living on a on a monastery  i didn't have any access to the internet  didn't have a cell phone didn't have  anything else yeah you you'd be amazed  just no matter how many hours there are  okay i can read some of this stuff out  no big deal but um people were debating  to what extent richard's defects of  character are the result of him having  had a bad childhood  so look guys i've got to say you know  there's more than one side  to these stories  you know did richard have a bad  childhood did richard even have a bad  childhood compared to other kids in the  same school he went to did richard have  a bad childhood compared to his own  half brothers and half sisters like his  other  siblings you know if you look at how  they grew up you know if you just make  comparisons in the same family um  you know i i would be incredibly  skeptical about that and you know we're  all inclined to be selfish we all are  and by the way i don't really uh  begrudge people when they're skeptical  about what i say about my own childhood  uh i am in fact incredibly honest and  really accurate about my own childhood  but you know i could understand that you  wouldn't assume that you can assume that  you would understand that i would be  self-pitying and self-centered and  diminish other people's perspectives uh  or what have you but in any case sorry  but compared to anyone else who grew up  uh in in toronto and the same  neighborhood went the same school i i'd  remain scheduled with that however one  person says  yeah  have you seen vegan gains debate he  refutes every argument and his only  comeback is what's your source  he loses every debate and interrupts  um  what would that have to do you see i'm  just saying this challenge you guys  what you've just observed  there's no connection between that and  this concept of sociopath there's no  connection with that in this concept of  psychopath there's no connection with  that and having a bad childhood like you  think only people who have a bad  childhood have this so i'm just saying  you you are this is a kind of  self-fulfilling prophecy you know you're  you're  putting together okay  i think there's a very different and you  know more important critique to put  forward when you say  vegan gains is someone who openly says  again and again that he wants to kill  people  he's someone who paradoxically while  being vegan openly says that he wants to  kill animals it's another whole surreal  debate you know he's someone who has had  these really deep you know ethical  fissures in his life he's someone who  when he was debating  the ethics of abortion admitted openly  that his primary reason for supporting  abortion was that he wanted to kill  people and specifically kill babies he  said many times that he has these  violent urges especially towards small  children and babies he's also tried to  rationalize this and make himself look  like a victim in various ways they're  not worth summarizing here okay so  but what i've just described  there's really no contact between that  and these problems with uh incompetence  and debate whatever we can't really  trace any any connection i think there  is a connection between this and what  the way in which he takes his own  defects of character and insists that  they're universal so  vegan gains is something of an  anti-natalist you tell me if he's ever  really clarified what his position is on  anti-natalism i think he likes to uh  i think he likes to be pointedly vague  about it  okay  you know it would take real humility for  richard to say  having a child is a wonderful thing it's  a tremendous responsibility  and it requires certain redeeming  characteristics that he himself just  doesn't have  therefore he isn't going to have a child  but he has the utmost respect for people  who do have the self-discipline who do  have the detachment who do have what it  takes intellectually ethically and  emotionally to raise the next generation  of children  that takes humility  all right takes humility and takes  self-knowledge you know what takes no  humility at all for richard to say that  he personally  can't have children and can never raise  children and hates the idea of he can't  cope with it he lacks their inequalities  and everyone else lacks them also and  therefore the human race should just  cease to exist  that anyone who has children is going to  be as bad a parent as he would be  himself that nobody can be made happy  through parenting these these kinds of  claims you see that's the same  that's the same pattern of  self-serving  thinking  self-serving  self-centered  short-term  single stage of analysis  thinking  that's what richard is into  so yeah  uh someone who calls himself a weird guy  in the audience  says quote he's sad he started  bodybuilding to impress women that kind  of shows me who he truly is i work out  so i can fight or pl or be better sports  uh so that it gives me an advantage  well so you know and someone else is  asking if you have you seen him say that  i have seen him talk about that that  aspect of his life um the role of  self-image and he's described himself as  struggling with something like anorexia  before too of constantly looking in the  mirror and feeling that he's fat feeling  that needs to be thinner and he blames  his mother for this uh interestingly he  says that his mother inculcated in him  this self-hating obsession with with  being as thin as possible um and that  none of the girls will want him nobody  will like him if he doesn't if he  doesn't starve himself he doesn't need  us  as little as possible so he does have  body image issues you know  don't forget  this is also someone who started doing  hardcore pornography on only fans  and at the same time claimed that he was  in the future going to get himself  elected to be prime minister of canada  that he would start running in elections  as an elected politician now i think the  most telling thing about that about so  look the obviously the hardcore porn  relates to  his body image and ego issues and his  relationship to women okay  you could analyze it one way or another  you know  i think it's significant  that when he states that he thinks he  could be a better prime minister than  the current  prime minister of canada that he could  win elections that he would be a better  politician than the politicians in his  own writing uh in his own district so on  and so forth  that that is primarily based again on  him projecting onto other people his own  negative personal characteristics the  assumption that everyone else is an even  more terrible person than he is and you  know what  you know richard you gotta calibrate  these judgments if i compare richard to  james aspie if i compare richard to  durianrider if i compare richard to gary  yourofsky you know these are all deeply  flawed characters there's all people who  have real problems richard  you're the worst  you're worse than all these people you  know  and i i'm sure that's hard to live with  richard but no if you actually took the  time to evaluate and get to know the  people in in politics maybe some of them  are worse than richard you know when you  put them maybe there are a few people  that are really legitimately worse than  than vegan gains than richard but you  know you're gonna have to again come to  a kind of very humble  conclusion that you know you lack  many of the redeeming qualities that  successful politicians have or that  successful politicians should have  you know  oh somebody's uh bringing up some uh  some anecdotes i told about buddhist  monks in the past well you've been  watching this channel for many years you  can remember that those videos  but i i am disappointed i would love to  do more videos about religion even just  atheism and christianity buddhism also  it's it's a disappointment that i have  no colleagues and i have no  contemporaries in that respect i bought  a book recently just to make some videos  talking about atheism but i've been i've  been busy with other books and with  writing my own book but yeah that's  still something i really uh care about  totally fine but frida's saying  something that challenges me  slightly frida says quote i think you  are the kind of person that would want  to do humanitarian work and would like  to benefit learn from doing research  period many people don't care about  those kinds of things period  you know what everyone cares about freda  they care about the man in the mirror  they care about the person they're gonna  become that's what people care about  i don't know any exceptions that  you know people do good things because  they want to be a good person they want  to become a better person through doing  good things you know  there are ambitions to change the world  you can have ambitions do humanitarian  work just to help other people you can  have ambitions to do research  just to learn things or just to publish  facts so that other people can learn  things just to establish facts that have  been hitherto unknown sure there are all  those motives but you know  that there is something  egoic at the core of all this which is  the question of when i wake up tomorrow  who am i going to be you know am i am i  going to despise the person i am when i  wake up tomorrow and richard hates  himself he hates the person he is he  hates them that he's become  so yeah i do think richard has a reason  richard has an interest in doing  humanitarian work i do think he has a  reason to do to do research too  and i think you know it's written all  over his youtube channel he craves he  yearns for a sense of moral superiority  over others he craves and yearns for a  sense of intellectual spirit over others  and he tries to make use of you know  footnoted references to peer-reviewed  medical studies this sort of thing which  he makes you know of course an amateur's  ham-fisted use of he doesn't really  understand anything in terms of  nutritional science not even research  related to bodybuilding and so on and so  forth he's not even a well-informed  amateur on all these subjects you know  uh  but it still shows that yearning it  still shows that craving  still shows that desire  either to be a better person or just to  be perceived as a better person so yeah  you know even someone like richard or  even someone like james aspie you know  they do have a reason to do humanitarian  work they do have a reason to get  involved in research  see a weird guy is again reflecting he  doesn't remember the exact video but  that's right i told this long story  about a buddhist monk whose hand is  swallowed by a snake a python and so  that is correct if you dig through far  enough you'll find that again on my  youtube  so sam walsh says what would you  consider your character flaws to be now  and how do you manage them effectively  look you know  um  [Music]  who says i'm managing them effectively  you know who says i'm winning who says  i'm doing it the right way you know i i  don't particularly think that i am you  know i'm really aware that i'm a deeply  flawed character  and um  some of these things  i think are innate within me and i'll  never overcome them  you know  um  you know i think there are okay i'm  gonna compare this let's talk about  bodybuilding all right  you can look in the mirror  and feel like you're never beautiful  enough feel like you're never muscular  enough never lean enough but for some  people you're never curvy enough or your  breasts are never big enough for your  face is never handsome enough your face  is never beautiful you can always be  dissatisfied by these kinds of  subjective  measurements in the mirror and look some  people  are ugly and no matter how they work  out they stay away and almost everyone  if you don't take steroids let me tell  you something when you get to be 30  years old it's much harder to be lean  and muscular than it was at 20 years old  that when you get to be 40 years old so  even if you were satisfied with what  your body looked like when you were 25  maybe you're going to be miserable and  so a lot of people struggle with this  looking in the mirror but you know what  there are objective measurements  for physical fitness where you can say  okay this exists in the real world and  that's enough so if i can do  200 push-ups and by the way i do the  push-ups with my feet elevated way the  hell up so it's not like a normal  push-up you're lifting much more your  body weight but regardless if i can do  200 push-ups and if i can bench press  200 pounds  in my 40s  i'm okay i'm in shape you know what i  mean you can just have a list of  exercises of amounts of you know  empirically real uh weight that you can  learn these okay that's it you know and  look maybe i'm gonna get ugly or an ugly  i think if we're being honest there's no  maybe about it we all get old you know  you know you can get uglier for a  variety of reasons you know okay you  know it's fine i'm in my 40s and when  i'm in my 40s and doing 200 push-ups a  day this is what i look like and you  know maybe that's it maybe that's all  you're you're cut out for  biologically and then  you can have the attachment of that you  can be at peace with that richard  himself he gains is an example of  somebody who will never be a piece of  that and i think if he writes the number  on the wall  bench pressing 200 pounds he'll be  unhappy with the number and if he writes  200 push-ups he'll be unhappy with the  push-ups and i think he does look at  other guys on instagram  you've seen it in some of his youtube  videos i think he does feel jealousy and  envy towards other bodybuilders and  other men who are more handsome  i don't  um  you know  okay in your intellectual life  in your emotional life  what's the equivalent  now i've got to say  i  i confirm like objectively the measure  that i'm okay  you know um that i'm co-paying with my  character flaws effectively when i put  it is my creative output  can i really be a creative person  and that doesn't rely on the audience  you know it can be that i'm writing  poetry in the 21st century nobody's  going to read your poetry the market for  poetry is incredibly small like it can  be that i'm writing poetry it can be  that i'm writing and illustrating story  books for my own daughter  it can be creativity in forms that are  not as monetizable as  as youtube but i can say all right look  if i'm really able to be creative if i'm  really able to work  um and and be productive  you know then i'm coping with within  reals that for me is the kind of  tangible objectively real measure  equivalent to uh doing 200 push-ups a  day  where you're not just looking in the  mirror and evaluating are you okay  when was the last time you saw the the  smallest spark of creativity from vegan  gains from richer  at the start of this video i said look  it's really sad he used to be honest  about his problems and now he's  dishonest about him you know what he  also used to be a creative person  and now he's not  you know now he's not a creative person  at all now he is just a morose resentful  violent person you know um there was a  time when he made up elaborate comedy  sketches i think he made up songs too  maybe i'm maybe i'm giving it too much  credit maybe song would be an  exaggeration but you know um  there used to be a kind of theatricality  and creativity  uh to what he was doing and that side of  him has been dead  for a long time  so that's that's a red flag that's a  that's a warning now look you know  melissa is here with me so melissa's  known me for approximately five years at  this point i would say to you that even  within those five years  you could look at the times in my life  when i was really doing badly when i was  really suffering when i was really  falling apart put it that way and and  you used to say to me you saved me you  know but no one can tell you've got your  act together like whatever you said in  different ways you're like what do you  mean you're so productive and you wake  up in the morning and you're doing all  this reading and you do it like you're  such an active positive person how can  you say you're falling apart  by the way there's a lot of truth to  that that's not that she's delusional  it's not that she's just in love with me  i know i know what she means like during  those times when i was saying to her  look i'm i'm falling apart like there's  a really dark time in my life like i'd  say that to her but she'd say like look  i can't believe it because you're such a  such a positive active person ah but i  would point out to you and i can  remember saying to you so i said look  you know for the last several months i  haven't been  writing and illustrating short stories i  haven't been you know whether you want  to say i'm just saying poetry for  convenience i haven't been drawing i  haven't read i haven't been quite like  that's  you know and you know obviously i mean  know i'm very honest with melissa i did  i did give voice to what it was i was so  upset about what i was so broken down  about what it was i was struggling to  cope with  uh so in that sense she can't say it's  hard to see what was wrong because i was  i was explaining it but i get her point  like her point is like well in the rest  of your life 12 hours a day like you  seem to be you seem to be coping so so  well  so look you know um  [Music]  it's it's a long answer but to to an  important question  and  you know  you asked how do you manage them  effectively and i think i gave you the  more important answer which is how can  you tell  how can you tell if you mention them  effectively because the easiest thing in  the world to delude yourself about and  again richard gives us lots of examples  of that if you want to stay on vegan  gains as the uh locust classic us  for this video you know richard claimed  he was cured so many times he claimed  that he used to be a psychopath but now  that he's used magic mushrooms he's  cured his condition he used to have this  problem that he was magically miraculous  cure  miraculously cured he had depression but  veganism cured his depression  one crazy scheme after another where  he's convincing himself that he's  managing or that he's overcome his  his problems so yeah i'm i'm giving you  uh i'm giving you maybe the more  important answer to that question  okay so weird guy says that he regrets  his bad childhood he can't fight anymore  and he's scared  okay you know what you get to control  you know what you get to change the  future  you know if that's not enough for you  you know and i'm being real here  not just the next five years not just  the next 10 years you get to change the  next thousand years of  what happens on planet earth  and  look at i mean i i do not support donald  trump  you think donald trump hasn't changed  life on earth for the next 100 years  yeah  it doesn't take that much  imagination it doesn't take that much  brilliance it certainly doesn't take  that much hard work i don't think anyone  could praise trump for his his work  ethic you know what i mean yes you can  you can change life  on earth for the next hundred years and  for the next  thousand years and you know  you could compose a little limerick a  little song that anyone can perform that  gets recited like a christmas carol  again and again by a thousand people and  10 000 people and taught from parent to  child  and i hope it'll be better than the  christmas carols i was taught as a child  you know you can you can come up with  something you can create something  meaningful that's going to inform and  change other people's lives and of  course that's going to inform and change  your own so you know what you're right  you can't do anything about your  childhood you can't do anything with the  past you can't even do anything about  what happened yesterday but what you can  change is the future including who you  are as i say if the future is not enough  for you you know quit now  but it should be you know because the  future is worth a lot more than the past  it really is  and think of all the people in history  who  suffered and struggled and died such  meaningless lives with such few so few  options such you know grim horizons  people who did not have the convenience  of a flushing toilet and how much all  those people from the past from history  would have much preferred to be here  today contesting the future that we all  still share  so i'm free to ask a great question  obviously there's the delay here i'm  answering some questions the rest many  minutes ago she asked quote but what is  he actually doing to become a politician  so the point is he had stated in this  grandiose way that he would be elected  prime minister of canada frida  what is vegan gains doing  to become a nutritionist  what is vegan gains doing to become a  bodybuilding expert  what is vegan gains doing to become an  actor  what is he doing to become a stunt man  to play leading roles  in movies do you guys remember he had  several years of boasting about that was  the next  phase of his career that he was gonna be  a  an action movie star what what has he  been doing  to become  an actor okay what has he been doing  to become a vegan activist  what has he even been doing to become a  successful youtuber all right with all  of these things he's been doing nothing  because he's a person with no positive  ambition  and you can you can see that you can see  that every day  you know so no he's not doing anything  to become a politician but he's also not  doing anything to become well-read in  any of the fields that he likes to hold  court on that he likes to sit and share  uh lord his superiority for others not  you know  okay fridas another great question here  she says  what do you think it takes  for a person to keep striving to become  that better person they would want to be  okay frida  i'm going to tell it to you straight for  the vast majority of people  the motives are no better than fear  fear  revenge  resentment  money  fame  power  respect  sex most people's reasons  for self-improvement for wanting to have  a more meaningful life or to be a better  person they're dark  but nevertheless you know  it leads them to the light you know what  can i tell it nevertheless has these  positive and beneficial outcomes and  i'll bet there are tons of people who  can say  that they started doing x y or zed  because they were just trying to get  laid you know whatever it was but they  really discovered the way to a more  meaningful life through it certainly  people go into the theater in order to  get like you know certainly people  undertake become artists creative  artists or what have you people become  medical doctors people become  researchers for these dark motives but  sure just just to touch on fear again  yeah there's a lot of fear in the game a  lot of people motivated by fear fear of  failure  fear of being like your own father  being no better than your own father  fear of  despising yourself sure  sure  you know  and  a lot of people in that struggle they  don't have any clear idea of positively  what it is they're running towards they  only know what it is they're they're  running away from right  at my age  my father had nine kids  i'd probably have a higher sex drive  than that guy probably  i'm just being real with you you know  obviously it was a demon that plagued  them his whole life the only reason he  didn't have more kids is that he got a  vasectomy you know  um  you know  um i didn't want to end up like my  father  okay  i went to university  i didn't want to end up  like any of my professors  not  any of them not even  like not even that and there were some  professors who took me aside and said  hey you know kid you're really brilliant  you could have my job you know you could  be a professor too you get a phd you  could be one of the special elite people  and this these are professors who are  telling the other kids that they can be  social workers so sure you know i had  some  encouragement well guess what i didn't  want to turn out like my dad and i  didn't want to turn out like my  university professors either you know  so  fear  and a lot of people don't know what  they're running towards they only know  what they're running away from they only  have negative  examples i had someone write into me  through patreon completely honestly and  they sent a couple messages saying look  i watch your recent videos about living  a meaningful life and being intellectual  but tell me what's what is your example  what's your positive example  of an intellectual  and then back a two-word reply  isil mazar  i didn't have any role models i didn't  have anyone to look up to  i didn't you know  and i didn't know what it was that was i  was running towards i didn't know what  kind of a better person i would become  or  should become or could  you know i only knew what i was avoiding  what i was what i was running away from  but i was motivated  [Laughter]  melissa and i talked about that today  from a totally different set of angles i  think during our walk today we were  talking about those  those issues  there are many people so quoting frida  again quote there are many people that  say all criticism is subjective  i just i disagree just like you say  there are objective measurements for  anything  and  this can be very positive too  um  they were also just inter-subjective  measurements  you know  uh  i opened this video by saying look let's  be reasonable if we're going to condemn  vegan gains what is it we're condemning  him for  it to what extent into what way is he a  a terrible person and i said look if if  i found out he was going to marry my  sister i'd really be worried  i'm just appealing to the audience  think sympathize think of yourself in  that hypothetical situation you find out  that your own sister  is going to marry  vegan gains and  whoa what are you going to say to her  how are you going to warn her and then  there are a whole lot of other people  you may disagree with or despise but you  say okay if i found out my sister was  going to marry james aspie  it's no big deal you know but  you know  so that's not objectively real it's not  it's inter-subjective  but that's a judgment we can all share  in and we can all you know compare notes  with each other and look you know what  the the tragedy thing is i think richard  would agree and well i think we've all  heard richard analyze his own mental  problems enough his own struggles with  violence his own struggles with his own  sexuality his own struggles with his own  body image we've heard him say that he  considers himself a deeply flawed and  somewhat dangerous character who's prone  to losing his mind going insane  hallucinating fits of rage so on and so  forth you know his descriptions of his  own hallucinations are very serious by  the way in the past he tried to  attribute his hallucinations to caffeine  and he tried to claim that he had cured  his hallucinations through dietary  change and by taking mind-altering drugs  like  magic mushrooms and have inclusionatory  experiences he's made all kinds of  outlandish claims about how he's cured  and how he's moved on he's progressed  and then we hear a few weeks later or a  few months later that tragically he's  had to admit to himself that he hasn't  made that that progress you know so i  think richard himself if he were in a  reflective enough mood could agree yeah  you know what i understand if our  positions were reversed  if i found out that a guy like me was  getting married to my sister i would  agree i challenge richard you guys may  or may not remember i said to him look  richard this is the stuff you've told us  about who you are  and you say you're going to own a gun  do you believe we should live in a  society where someone who has this  checklist of symptoms should own and  carry a firearm you know it was just the  list of mental problems you have  admitted struggling with yourself you  have described yourself struggling with  is that someone who should own and carry  a firearm he's he's described having  paranoid delusions of feeling that  someone's attacking him if they just  shake his hand  that a stranger comes up and is happy to  see him as happy and smiling and he has  the paranoid delusion this person is  trying to kill him that this person is  going to stab him and he wants to defend  himself or wants to punch this person he  is described struggling with those  paranoid delusions sometimes combined  with hallucinations okay is that someone  who should be carrying a gun richard if  we're talking about someone other than  you but when we're talking about him  right he's incapable of that kind of of  that kind of reflection now likewise  this whole act he has of challenging  people to a cage match if anyone else  were doing it frankly when durianrider  was doing it i think he disapproved of  durianrider dude he could see the fault  in it when other people were  doing the same thing  uh stefan or stephanie sorry stephanie  asked will we ever see any of your  drawings  we could do that for this sock mess we  could uh upload we could upload to  youtube or upload as a pdf the sockmess  children's storybook could go through  and illustrate that  yeah  sorry i'm not going to digress and do an  autobiographical thing about that but  there was a time when i assumed working  on improving my own drawing would be a  big part of my life but just as i was  disappointed that the college here that  teaches you how to bake bread was so  terrible the college is available to me  to learn how to draw or improve your  ability to draw we're also terrible in  canada so i am purely self-taught but  there is a sense in which yeah you can  see my peculiar intellectual character  and my drawings too  happiest vegan on earth says quote i  don't understand why richard's channel  hasn't been taken down with all his  violent speech slash behavior  well um  [Music]  he doesn't have an instagram anymore  he's banned from instagram for life he  doesn't have twitter anymore he's been  banned from twitter for life you'll  never hear him say honestly why that was  never  right so there are many other platforms  he's been banned from that he's been  kicked off of  uh not youtube  or  not yet i do not watch his live streams  he does these long format live streams  but i've had people writing into me and  saying look if you can sit through these  things he breaks youtube's um terms and  conditions you know he breaks the the  guidelines multiple times in each uh  each live stream which is obviously easy  for me to imagine  so a little four word comment from  william again  william again says simply quote  fear of the unknown  okay william i think richard is a great  example for this  what do you think richard is more afraid  of  you know the unknown  the person he could become how these  experiences could change him  or staying the same being the same piece  of [ __ ] he already is that he's already  been  since his teenage years you know not  growing not developing like you know you  can fear what's known you can fear  ending up like your own father you know  as i said just to give it a  give it put it put a face on what is you  can fear ending up like your own school  teachers you know  um  if you  give a really simple example we did all  this research into having a career in  the stock market uh into studying for  the cfa exams i'm sorry what are the  other exams and the finra right the  finra exams  um getting the credentials necessary to  work on the stock market  in the united states of america i think  it's reasonable to be afraid of how that  experience is going to change you you  know if you start devoting your time and  energy to doing these mathematical  equations and thinking about how you can  make money on the stock market you are  going to change no matter who you are if  you don't already have that that  background you know what you may you may  fear that change i find it very  difficult to believe that richard is is  afraid of that change i find it very  difficult to believe richard would be  afraid of going to thailand or going to  cambodia or going to africa or going to  saudi arabia i find it difficult to  imagine that he would be afraid  you know in that in that sense  um you know it is worthwhile to talk  about fear at the end it is sure  uh  but you know you can also be afraid of  stagnation  you can be afraid of waking up ten years  from now and being exactly the same  person you are today  but worse  you know you can be afraid of your own  lack of growth and dynamism  great question from molly smiles are you  guys really moving to los angeles  yes and uh we're probably going to be uh  asking people for advice on what what  apartment and what neighborhood we're  going to get involved in all kinds of  boring details like that so yeah we have  some paperwork coming up but at some  point you're going to notice something  different in the background  and um  then it'll be fitting completely we'll  be we'll be living in living in los  angeles  okay guys uh thanks for hanging out  thanks for contributing to this uh  discussion um  you know  i learned today something i'd never  heard before  i was totally unaware  that yemen  was formerly a communist country  now for someone in my position who  studied the history and politics of  communism for so many years and talked  to so many experts you know professors  in other words read so many books and  someone who's also read quite a lot  about the politics of saudi arabia and  yemen  it is astonishing to me that i was  completely unaware until today  that south yemen  formerly was a  communist country  communism is bad  the government of saudi arabia  the government of the houthi rebels in  yemen the government of the tyrannical  muslim majority in these countries saudi  arabia and yemen regarded collectively  as having a population of over 60  million people it's so bad  that you can see communism  as an improvement  you can look at that and think  hmm  how would the civil war in yemen today  be different how would the whole  situation for yemen and saudi arabia and  the whole of the muslim world be  different  if  yemen had remained a communist country  or under communist dominion you know one  way or another you know um  [Music]  richard is such a terrible person  he is such a bad person he is so stupid  he is so dishonest he's so malevolent  that he puts himself into a debate  with these other terrible people and he  ends up making them look good by  contrast you know  i did not think i would regard  isaac butterfield as a sagacious person  but here we are staring at the contrast  between him and a registered between him  and vegan gains and you know vegan gains  is just such a black hole of a person  he's such a dark void of a human being  that pretty much anyone you have sit  down next to them  by contrast seems to glow with their own  kind of morally positive light